GDD/src/mech.md, before:

# Mechanics

## Rules of Devilish Tricks

The core gameplay loop is played in multiple 'rounds' of play, each consisting of multiple 'tricks'. Each round the player is dealt a certain number of cards and then will be asked to bet how many 'tricks' they will win. At the start of each 'trick', the dealer will play 3 cards, 2 face up and 1 face down, and the player must play 1 of their cards in an attempt to either lose or win the 'trick'. The card with the 'highest value wins the trick', and all cards on the table are gathered by the winner, beit the player or the dealer.

At the start of the round, before the player has placed their bet, the dealer will flip the top card of the deck face up, revealing it's suit. This suit becomes the 'trump', and any cards of the same suit are automatically a higher value than any card in another suit. For example, if the dealer reveals a 'spade as the trump', and the player plays a '4 of spades', the player will win the 'trick' unless the dealer reveals a 'spade of higher rank' or a 'Wizard'

The deck consists of the regular 52 cards - 2 through Ace, of all 4 suits, Aces high - plus 2 special cards of which there are 4 each, for a total of 60 cards. The special cards are the 'Wizard', whose value is higher than all other cards, and the 'Jester', whose value is lower than all other cards. Note that only the first 'Wizard' revealed wins the 'trick'.

The object of the game is to win **only** as many 'tricks' as you bet at the start of the 'round', any over or under counts as a loss.

A single 'round' will play as such:
	1) Dealer deals 5 random cards to the player, and 1 face up card for the 'trump suit'.
	2) Player bets between 0 and the number of cards in hand.
	3) dealer plays 3 cards, 2 face up 1 face down
	4) player plays 1 card, then the dealer flips the last card, revealing the whole hand
	5) Highest value card determines who wins the trick, tie goes to the dealer.
	6) Dealer keeps playing 3 cards until player has no cards left, and the round is over.
	7) if player has won a number of tricks other than the bet, they lose.

Commit message:

Added Item Rules to the GDD

GDD/src/mech.md, after:

# Mechanics

## Rules of Devilish Tricks

The core gameplay loop is played in multiple 'rounds' of play, each consisting of multiple 'tricks'. Each round the player is dealt a certain number of cards and then will be asked to bet how many 'tricks' they will win. At the start of each 'trick', the dealer will play 3 cards, 2 face up and 1 face down, and the player must play 1 of their cards in an attempt to either lose or win the 'trick'. The card with the 'highest value wins the trick', and all cards on the table are gathered by the winner, beit the player or the dealer.

At the start of the round, before the player has placed their bet, the dealer will flip the top card of the deck face up, revealing it's suit. This suit becomes the 'trump', and any cards of the same suit are automatically a higher value than any card in another suit. For example, if the dealer reveals a 'spade as the trump', and the player plays a '4 of spades', the player will win the 'trick' unless the dealer reveals a 'spade of higher rank' or a 'Wizard'

The deck consists of the regular 52 cards - 2 through Ace, of all 4 suits, Aces high - plus 2 special cards of which there are 4 each, for a total of 60 cards. The special cards are the 'Wizard', whose value is higher than all other cards, and the 'Jester', whose value is lower than all other cards. Note that only the first 'Wizard' revealed wins the 'trick'.

The object of the game is to win **only** as many 'tricks' as you bet at the start of the 'round', any over or under counts as a loss.

A single 'round' will play as such:
	1) Dealer deals 5 random cards to the player, and 1 face up card for the 'trump suit'.
	2) Player bets between 0 and the number of cards in hand.
	3) dealer plays 3 cards, 2 face up 1 face down
	4) player plays 1 card, then the dealer flips the last card, revealing the whole hand.
	5) Highest value card determines who wins the trick, tie goes to the dealer.
	6) Dealer keeps playing 3 cards until player has no cards left, and the round is over.
	7) If player has won a number of tricks other than the bet, they lose.

Between rounds, the deck must be shuffled.

## Item Cards

Before the start of every round of a battle, the player must choose up to 3 of their available 'item cards' that will be drawn into their hand on the very left. If the player already has 'item cards' in their hand, they may only select as many item cards as they need to make the total 3. If they have none available, or the player has 3 items cards in hand the start of the round, this step is skipped and the dealer proceeds with the dealing cards. 

When an item card is played, it's 'effect' is activated. This effect cannot be cancelled, even if the effect requires additional player input - i.e. selecting another card to be transformed or destroyed. An item can only be played before the player has played a regular playing card, which signifies the end of the current 'trick'. When an item's effect has concluded, it is made unavailable to be selected at the start of the next round, if it there is a next round.

**Item Effects**
- The Reaper: Destroy one of the dealer's cards
- Ascension: Transform a card in hand or one of the opponents cards into a 'Wizard'
- Damnation: Transform a card in hand or one of the dealer's cards into a 'Jester'
- **ADDITIONAL ITEMS TO BE DESIGNED**
